From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman posted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 16 recorded
Monday May 1st, 2006. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Peter bloom.com.
Start with better controls finish
with better sites online@peterblumdotcomandby.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott uncover some new
web tools. Text-based utilities, source
code, and other Hansel minutia.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin. You're
listening. Two Hansel minutes. Show
number 15, Hansel minutia. Number
one. Hi Scott. Hi Carl.
How are you? So rather
than having a theme, we're
sort of scatterbrained today, right?
Well, I wouldn't say scatterbrain.
I would say that I'm
de fragmenting the Hanselman. It's
trying to get all the
different little things that didn't
fit into a large thematic
show. The Hansel minutiae altogether.
I'm really getting tired of
all the Hansel puns that
are being sent out. Okay.
So basically, yeah, You got
to defrag the hard drive
from once in a while.
So this is defragging In
fact it is web tools,
got some web tools for
us today. Yeah. A couple
of cool things that came
across the email today. One
of them was a thing
called clip.net, except spell clip
with a one you go
cl one p.net or for
the shrinks to people@theirshrinks.com slash
E I V with all
the Ray Ozzie stuff, going
around with his live internet
clipboard and micro formats and
stuff. Web 2.0, came up
with their own solution called
clip.net, the internet clipboard. And
basically it's a fairly manual
and hacky, but incredibly clever
way to copy paste between
computers. So if you go
to shrinks.com/e w, which is
actually an alias for clip.net/hansel
minutes, you'll see some texts
that I pasted there earlier.
So if you've ever got
to go around firewalls, or
you want to paste a
whole lot of text to
someone, you can just go
up there. It's like, you
could go up there right
now. Carl would go to
cl one p.net/and then putting
whatever you want, like slash
Carl Franklin. And if that doesn't
already exist as a clipboard,
you'll get a big text
box. You can paste a
whole bunch of stuff there
and then send someone that
link and they'll be able
to pick it up or
you can up upload files
up to two megs. Wow.
I like it in size.
Yeah. So as long as
you're not putting private information
up there and private files,
you can move files of
up to two megs and
big chunks of clipboard information.
Pretty clever. They've got about
30,000 clips up there. Very
cool stuff. Very cool. So
in the, in the interest
of being of sharing, I'm
on the delicious bandwagon. I
don't know if I've got
you hooked on delicious yet.
I am hooked. You are
on delicious. Isn't it? It's
just, it's very cool. It's
fantastic. So this is Del
dot ICI O dot U
S. It's basically delicious with
dots strategically placed within the
word, the delicious dots. Yeah.
And you can go to
my delicious list at
dot com slash E ex.
And the thing that is,
people look at it, malicious
thing. I don't quite get
it. I don't quite understand
what delicious is all about,
but you've just got to
give it a day of
your time. And instead of
putting things in your bookmarks
or trying to save Earls
and a text field, try
delicious, it's a social bookmarker.
The thing that's interesting about
a delicious from my point
of view, isn't that right?
You can store all of
your information up there it's
that you can see information
that other people have tagged,
right? So I can go
and say delicious slash S
Hanselman cause as Hanselman's my
username slash and then the
name of one of my
tags. So delicious slash S
Hanselman slash MSH. And I
can see all of the
things that I have tagged
with MSH MSH is the
Microsoft shell. We'll talk about
it a little later. It's
now changed its name, but
what's cool is that I
could say, well, what are
other people tagging with MSH?
What are other people, what
are popular? Things that are
tagged with MSH, and then
I can copy them into
my list. So it's the
power of bookmarking along with
the power of the entire
web, also bookmarking and ranking,
right? Yeah. And these tag
clouds built exactly like you're
saying the ranking, if it
seems that a particular page
is better tagged with something
else, other than NSH, maybe
it should be tagged with
monad or PowerShell or whatever.
The, the mob mentality of
bookmarkers will eventually pick the
right tag. So what you
mentioned PowerShell, what is PowerShell?
Well, PowerShell is the new
name and isn't a lovely
name. It is a four
monad that we did a
show on a couple of
weeks ago. Aha. PowerShell is
the marketing version of the
really awesome and kind of
like clever monad mysterious name.
Nice. I actually blogged a
eulogy@ashrinkstir.com slash E I Y
about mourning monad and a
PowerShell though. It is they've
changed everything. The thing that's
kind of interesting, they've changed
the extension from dot MSH
files to dot P S
one, which means that the
next version of PowerShell will
have a PS two extension.
Oh no. Which will make
the PlayStation users very happy.
I'm sure. But one of
the things with the name
change, Bruce Payette, a brilliant
leader engineer on the PowerShell
project has come out with
a, a chapter one free
free chapter of his PowerShell
and action upcoming book. You
can go to shrinks.com/e Z,
Z, Z E I S.
Ed. And you can get
a copy of that first
unedited chapter. This is going
to be a, an insider's
view on the PowerShell with
all the updated information you
can get the link directly
to the PDF is shrink,
stir.com/j zero. And that's the
unedited draft source for his
chapters chapter one. And I
read it yesterday and I
must say, I really liked
the style. And if you
are wondering what monad is,
what PowerShell is, this is
a really quick read, very
flowing language with a lot
of cool examples, a definitely
a chapter to check out
if you wanna get excited
about being more effective from
the, We had a lot
of great emails, feedback, a
lot of great feedback by
email about the monad show
and so much so that
we chose that as our
first installment in.net developers journal,
we're doing a sort of
a synopsis of one of
the shows that we've done
recently and just a transcript
of a part of that
show. And we chose the
monad show for the first
one. That was, that was
a lot of fun. A
lot of people thought it
would be weird to talk
about a command line over
the, over the radio, but
I think we pulled it
off. Yeah, I can almost,
I can almost talk in
monospace font right now. Not
quite so speaking actually of
a, of text mode and
things of that ilk, spending
time at the command line.
I blogged recently about a,
what I call the return
of Norton commander turns out,
you know, and I had
forgotten about this, cause I
used to use this tool
called far a while back.
It's a Russian tool, but
you know, Norton commander, that
was the bomb. That was
the big blue two pain
dos application. That was the
Shell of the preferred shell
for dos. That's where I
spent all my time at
Norton commander. Because the thing
that was cool about it
is that you could fold
up the panes and still
do your dos commands in
the background. So you knew
you could do dos without
ever leaving Norton commander. It
was wicked fast. It was
basically windows Explorer for DAS,
right? But it didn't suck.
And Oh man, that's cold.
But some people have called
Norton commander, the greatest application
ever written. And there's actually
a series of fan sites,
including the commander homepage. And
there's a couple of applications
out there. One of which
called far that I have
get I'm getting back into
that Misha Burgle emailed me
about, and all those links
are at shrinker.com/ . Okay.
Far is a text mode,
Norton commander clone with full
windows long file name support.
So you can be poking
around and, you know, full
speed using two type fonts.
I changed my font to
a, listed a console for
an big, you know, big
screen text mode. No, this
is far far. Does that
stand for something? Ah, you
know, I don't know. I
don't think it does. It's
it's the farm manager. Yeah.
And what's cool about it
though, is that you not
only do you get full
support for long file names,
but there's a whole rich
plugin community such that it's
really impossible to look at
far without its plugins. So
you can step into archives
as if their directories it's
pretty amazing and turns out
I'm getting a whole lot
of comments on that post.
I've got 14 at the
time of this, this recording
and people are talking about,
there are other applications out
there. I thought that'd be
like one dos application that
would be filling this niche,
but there's a application called
total commander directory, Opus, servant,
salamander Z tree when extra
gold clones, these are all
applications vying for that valuable
space. As number one, DOS-based
text mode, you know, file
manager. I had no idea
I knew about far, but
did not realize there was
such a fervent group of
fan boys out there. And
I'm going to have to
go through step by step
and learn about all these
other ones that I, that
I hadn't heard of. And
maybe do a review sometime.
Well, why, When you think
that there's this return to
text mode, utilities like this?
Well, you know, text mode
is fast. It's guaranteed. It's
it's. I actually did an
article on my blog a
while back, I'll put a
shrink stir up. This was
in 2000 and, and four.
I've got that up at
shrink, stir.com/e J V that's
shrinks your.com/ejv. And I had
blogged about to post I'd
called opportunity. Windows is missing
the text mode boat because,
you know, I was over
at Toyota service, getting my
car worked on and everyone
was working on text mode.
You know, you go to
a JC Penney's and you
buy something at a department
store. They're all typing in
a text mode when you
go somewhere and you notice
that they have to reach
for the mouse in order
to, you know, click and
open up the cash register.
Don't you kind of go,
gosh, don't just in their
hot key to open the
register. Yeah. Or a button
on the screen. Yeah. There's,
there's a real or a
touchscreen. I don't think a
mouse and a keyboard are
really a point of sale
kind of a thing. Definitely
not. But you know, I
know I hate putting my
hands on the mouse when
I'm writing code, but I
always have to reach for
it when I want to
start dragging things around and
explore. And there's just something
comforting about, about text mode.
It's fast, it's clean, it's
crisp. There's nothing in the
way, Especially data entry, right?
Yeah, totally. This is one
of the biggest problems of,
you know, working in a
asynchronous environment like windows is
windows will just pop up
on you. Like you're typing,
you're entering some data and
all of a sudden Boeing
something comes up and I
am, comes up or something.
And all, you know, you
type the last half of
your sentence to a friend
of yours or something and
they steal your focus and
you can prevent that with
the tweak UI tools that
we talked about last week,
there's a setting in there
to prevent other windows from
stealing your focus, but still,
you know, it's not the
default behavior. Yeah. And I
understand when I talk to
some of the guys on
the Aero team at windows
Vista, that they are doing
things to be a little
more formal about what windows
are allowed to steal, focus
away from you and, and
what aren't. Yeah. There's a
couple of interesting posts, I
think at Raymond Chen side about
why exactly that happens in,
you know, the internals of
windows, why someone, her allowed
to pull full focus away
and some aren't cool. So
couple of other cool applications
that I've been checking out
a, one's actually an older
application called denim. And this
is a, an informal tool
that you would use to
prototype an application or typically
a website. This has been
an app for a while,
but it's, it's a, it's
over at the university of
Washington and this is been
getting more and more advanced.
They've got version two out
to Java based application that
runs on windows and Unix
and Mac. And this is
cool. You actually draw your
prototypes, just like using a
pen, you know, like, like
you're drawing on a tablet,
PC, just sketching out kind
of how you want things
to look. And then you
might say, well, this button
is going to go over
to that page. Then you
would draw that other page
and then just draw a
line between the button and
the page. And you're basically
building a hypertext, a demo,
but what's cool is then
you hit export to HTML
and then they use your
actual rough sketches and export
your, your entire demo. How's
the HTML, that's the question?
Well, basically what it is
is it's just an image
of what you drew with
a bunch of image maps.
So the idea is that
you're going to be giving
them a live, you know,
it's like drawing on paper
except you get the hypertext
feel. I get it. So
you can do quick prototyping
of, of functional aspects. And
it is prototyping. It's not
website building. No, exactly it
is. It is prototyper. And
this has been around for
a very long time and
it's a, it's a sketcher
and they've got videos and
different examples of this up
at  dot com slash
EJB. And I've been a
fan of this for a
number of years. I've used
it a couple of times
on a project. And then
I noticed that there is
a unrelated, but way more
advanced commercial prototype or called
easy prototype@stringer.com slash EJC. Hmm.
And this one actually lets
you take existing images and
import them. So you could
be basically building your website
on it, whiteboard, take a
picture of your whiteboard, import
them into the tool and
then Mark the different hotspots
and then build your prototype
from existing pencil sketches, existing
digital photos. Wow. Make them
all interactive and then publish
them as HTML and then
show them to the client
and say, so kind of
like this, yeah. The speed
that you could do, this
kind of prototyping versus writing
the, you know, the application
yourself would be significant. Yeah,
I bet. So you can
get that feedback loop started
in a way earlier. This
is about making the pages
interactive, not making them, making
them pretty sounds great. All
right. Let's talk about some
source code. You found some
good source code repositories this
week. I noticed that, you
know, we had talked about
Sean McCormack last, last week
and I ended up meeting
him in person for the
second time@deeperin.net in Wisconsin, and
then come home here, log
in Monday morning. And then
I see that he's released
the underlying framework for his
two applications, codas and Zane
bug they're up source. The
T's released out to the,
the world@stringer.com slash . This
is an enterprise library that
he is released. That includes
object caching, business rule validation,
a really cool X path
navigator that you can basically
navigate over objects using X
path, even though they're not
XML, they just do you
have an object graph, you
can walk around inside it.
Wow. He's got some pretty
interesting cogeneration stuff and just
a bunch of really useful
classes that are, that are
utility based. I like the,
you know, the Microsoft enterprise
library, but it was really
cool to see a smart
developer basically take all of
the chunks of source that
he uses to make his
life easier. And rather than
making it snippets, he's made
it a formal library and
then gone on and created
two really successful open source
applications using that underlying library.
Wow. That's great. You know,
you could really become a
better cook Or reading other
people's code. Yeah. You know,
you don't become a better
coder writing. You know, if
some, if you're in an
English literature class, they don't
say you really should write
more. You'll become a better
writer. Yeah. Although there is
truth to that, but there
you have to read a
lot, lot more than you.
Right? Totally. So I was
really happy to see that
out there and he's doing
a great thing to make
it available. And I'm looking
forward to reading, reading that
code over the coming weeks.
Are you doing a webcast
coming up here soon about
hardware? Something? Yeah. Actually speaking
of source code, I've got
all of those, all the
different source and things that
I've written for the I'm
coding for fun site at
msn.com/coding for fun. I'm going
to be doing a webcast,
talking about programming hardware with,
with dotnet 2.0, that's up
at shrinker.com/e I T. Now
what do you mean hardware?
So this is basically anything
that's a physical object, separate
free from your computer. So
that might, well actually on
the webcast, we'll be talking
about talking to a GPS
with serial ports. Okay. I'll
be talking about those key
fobs, the security key fobs
that are USB based and
talk about the hell that
is USB. Yes. We'll talk
about, I'm talking to that.
Webcam, the baby webcam using
a HTTP. Alright. You know,
it's really great. If an
object that you're trying to
interface with has an IP
address. That's the ultimate for
hardware. Yep. I can just
talk to it. And it's
got its own web server,
but not every piece of
hardware is like that. So
we're going to talk about
all those things. Getting use
sockets for any of this.
I'm probably not raw sockets,
but I will be manually
parsing HTTP and looking at
JPEG files that are coming
across in what's called an
JPEG or motion JPEG. Cool.
And that won't be sockets,
but will be pretty low
level. Pretty close. Yep. Yeah.
A couple other things that
are going on right now
is a David JAKKS MVP
hacks book is coming out
just in time for just
not for tech ed. Yeah.
You can get details on
that at shrinks, your.com/e J
four. And this was going
to be a little bit
different kind of a book.
It's not like the asp.net
two old professional book. This
was just a book of
collected hacks, undocumented things, tips,
tricks, things that will allow
you to mess around with
ASP. And it'll actually be
most of the hacks work
in asp.net. One, one and
two. Oh, and I did
the HTTP handler section, the
view state section some stuff
on HTTP modules pulled in
content from all over Phil
hacks blog, a number of
different places. One of the
neat things is a little
HTTP handler based on an
Edward Tufty thing called spark
lines, spark lines. You can
learn about those at a
shrinker.com/ega. Five are little tiny
graphics that are like the
sizes of words, the size
of words that are meant
to provide a burst of
information and used almost like
a noun. So someone would
say your blood sugar is,
and they would, and then
you'd see a graphic appear
as if it were a
word. And it would be
a tiny little line graph.
And by just looking at
that line graph, you could
tell a picture's worth a
thousand words, right? So this
HTTP handler written by Eric
Bach tall is@shrinkstir.com slash EGA
six is a totally a
kind of extensible C-sharp HTP
handler that can be used
in any application that doesn't
care about what kind of
a application you're using because
the interface is query string
based. You actually describe the
graph over the query string,
using whatever numbers you want
and he'll automatically return and
generated graphic. You can do
bar charts. You can do
that's cool. Smooth is all
based on the course, you
can do smooth lines. And
then we've put that into
the book with his permission
and using that tough desk
way of thinking. You could
take that and provide, you
know, ongoing balances information on
a financial site, blood sugar
information visitors on your site.
I mean the, the, the,
the benefits of having a
tiny, tiny line graph within
a sentence available to you
on your site. Very nice.
Very cool. I go rambling
again. You know, one thing
you didn't say about the
ASP net MVP hacks book
is that you're one of
the authors, right? I agree.
I did imply that you're
right. There are a number
of smarter authors than I
on the book. If you
look@thecoverofthebookupatshrinks.com slash , I was
joking earlier that that looks
like a bunch of guys
with them. 12 set of
dice that are about ready
to a place in D
and D a bunch of
nerdy, bunch of nerdy looking
guys on our Brady bunch
cover there. But you know,
we've got Jonathan Goodyear, you
know, the angry coder there,
right? J Ambrose. I mean,
these are some smart guys,
Joe Maio, who did a
S a C sharp book
recently for the same author
as the, a PowerShell in
action. So David Jack has
really got a bunch of
smart folks together. And I
guess they're doing a deal
up on Amazon now that
you can buy that book
along with the asp.net book
for the price of one.
So it's going to two
for deals On Amazon, right?
It's a good book. I've
read it. They had the
professional ESPN at two Oh
one. No, your, your ASP
net MVP hacks book, you
go, Oh, you were one
of the reviewers. Yeah. Oh,
rock on. Yup. I didn't
know that you were sneaking
around in the back, looking
The proofs brother. See, you
don't even know. See. Yeah.
Yeah. I, you know, and
if I had known you
were reading, I would have
left messages for you in
the comments, a couple other
things I'm going to be
running around next week. Speaking
at a couple of places
as part of my Neta
obligations, stringer.com/ega seven. I'll be
in Pittsburgh on Tuesday, North
Dallas on Wednesday in Dallas,
on Thursday, all the while
holding down my full time
job logging in over the,
the cell phone modem, they
were trying to get real
work done. Yup. And that
speaker schedule, like I said,
is up there@shrinksor.com slash EGA
seven. And then at tech
ed, I'm going to be
part of the group of
judges for the iron architect
contests and the iron architect
contest up@shrinksor.com slash E eight
is pretty interesting because if
you, even though the site's
a little dense with its
amount of information, if you
look into the details, they're
giving away a free chance
at the Microsoft architect certification.
And this is the super
certification, right? This isn't like
MCC or MCFC. This is
like the $10,000 one They're
giving away something worth 10
grand. Basically you sit in
front of a board and
go through a whole process.
This is a multi-month, you
know, six months, nine months
process. You have to go
through. It's like getting your,
getting your ms right, getting
your master's in, something like
that. And they've got the
iron architect question up there,
and they're going to be
judged by a bunch of
a competent NBA MVPs. And
you could potentially win something
worth 10 grand Pain. As
long as we're talking about
appearances, I'm doing something. I
don't think anyone has done
before. I'm doing, I'm making
a remote appearance at a
code camper, a grok talk.
They're calling it. It's not
really code camp. It's the
Anarbor GrokTalk and it's today,
Wednesday, it's the day that
this show is coming out.
I'll be doing it tonight.
And we're basically setting up
a computer I'm remoting in.
I've got a telephone interface
and I'm doing a remote,
a demo from my office
in new London to a
crowd at this, at this
group. And if it works,
you know, maybe we'll try
to enable this technology for,
for other people who want
to do remote presentation. Yeah.
I don't think I've ever
seen that before. It's such
an obvious thing to do,
but I think you're, I've
never seen anyone give a
talk. Are they going to
put you on the screen
with a camera? No, no,
no. You won't see me
on the screen, but you'll
see my machine. And they're
going to, you're going to
share your entire screen out
to the share mine Entire
screen. And we have two
way communication between the crowd
and me. That's how the
phone that's hot. Yep. Try
that. That would get me
off of an airplane. Yeah,
exactly. That's the whole idea
is that, you know, I'm
going to talk to my
Netta about this and maybe,
you know, making some formal
process by which we can
get the equipment out to
the user groups and get
them some training. What a
great idea. Yep. It's the
same stuff that we use
for a DNR TV and.net
rocks, telephone interface, kind of
stuff with some microphones and
some audio wizardry on their
end, very slick. And also
Richard and I are doing
a.net rocks live at tech
ed in Boston. And we're
going to be interviewing. We
think we're going to be
interviewing the  team, although
they haven't committed yet, but
that's the, they have a
initial gee. That sounds cool.
And we're going to be
raffling off at that show,
a MSDN premium subscription, MSDN
premium subscription. We're going to
be giving one of those
away. Now, as you know,
this is something that Microsoft
just doesn't give away very
often, but we as regional
directors and MVPs too, as
well, get to give a
few of these away to
key customers. And we decided
to use one. I decided
to use one of mine
at this tech ed session.
Very cool. All right, Scott.
And that brings us to
the end of another fabulous
episode of Hansel minutes. Thanks
for listening, Scott. Thanks for
sharing. And we'll see you
next week. .